Pascal Cagle
The Odin Project
02 April 2022

Prerequisites: How Does The Web Work?

1. What is a network?
A network consists of two or more computers that are linked in order to share resources
(such as printers and CDs), exchange files, or allow electronic communications.
The computers on a network may be linked through cables, telephone lines, radio waves,
satellites, or infrared light beams.

2. What is the Internet?
The Internet is a global network of computers that use protocols and data packets to
exchange information. There are a range of different protocols to do different jobs
on the network.

3. What is an IP address?
An IP (Internet Protocol) address is a unique address that identifies any computer
linked to a network. Each address is made of a series of four numbers separated by dots.

4. What is a router?
A router is a networking device that forwards data packets between computer networks.
Routers perform the traffic directing functions on the Internet.

5. What is an ISP?
An ISP (Internet Service Provider) is a company that manages some special routers that
are all linked together and can also access other ISPs’ routers.

6. What are packets and how are they used to transfer data?
A packet is a basic unit of communication over a digital network. They are used to break
data into small chunks so it is easier to transmit. The packets are reassembled once they
reach their destination.

7. What is a client?
A client is the typical web user’s Internet-connected device and web-accessing software
available on those devices.

8. What is a server?
A server is a computer that stores web pages, sites, or apps. When a client device wants
to access a webpage, a copy of the webpage is downloaded from the server onto the client
machine to be displayed in the user’s web browser.

9. What is a web page?
A web page is a document which can be displayed in a web browser such as Firefox, Google
Chrome, Opera, Microsoft Internet Explorer or Edge, or Apple’s Safari. It is also often
called just “a page.”

10. What is a web server?
A web server is a computer that hosts a website on the Internet.

11. What is a web browser?
A web browser is a computer software application that functions at the application layer
of an Open Systems Interconnection model and allows users to access the Internet.

12. What is a search engine?
A search engine is a web service that helps you find other web pages, such as Google, Bing,
Yahoo, or DuckDuckGo. A search engine is normally accessed through a web browser or through
a web page.

13. What is a DNS request?
A DNS request (also known as a DNS query) is a demand for information sent from a user’s
computer (DNS client) to a DNS server. In most cases, a DNS request is sent to ask for the
IP address associated with a domain name.

14. Which browser are you currently using?
Opera 84 (Opera GX)

15. In your own words, explain what happens when you run a search on google.com.
After typing a phrase into the search bar, the user sends a request to google.com.
Google receives that users’ request and looks through its databases for pages that may contain
the wanted phrase. When it finds some, it compiles them into the search results and sends them
back to the user as its response.
